Create localization-tutorial.md (#1046)
bigcommerce/dev-docs: docs/stencil-docs/localization/localization-tutorial.md

To complete this tutorial, you should be familiar with the following concepts:

* [Installing Stencil CLI](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/stencil-docs/installing-stencil-cli/installing-stencil)
* [Creating a Stencil CLI Token](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Store-API-Accounts)
* [Downloading and uploading custom themes](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Stencil-Themes#download-upload)
* [Serving a live preview](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/stencil-docs/installing-stencil-cli/live-previewing-a-theme#serving-a-live-preview)

## Adding a language file
1. After downloading and extracting your Stencil theme, open the folder containing your theme files and navigate to the `/lang` subfolder. 

<div class="HubBlock--callout">
<div class="CalloutBlock--info">
<div class="HubBlock-content">

<!-- theme:  -->
### Note

The `/lang` subfolder includes the `en.json` file and example language files. The `en.json` file and your language file must be present for a localized Stencil theme to work. Each language requires its own JSON file. 

</div>
</div>
</div>

> 2. Name your translation file based on the [BCP 47 specification](https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp47) of language and region codes.

Reviewer: Need to mention the `es.json` file in this step being created and added to the `/lang` subfolder.

3. Copy the desired key-value pairs from the `en.json` file and paste them into your newly-created `es.json` file. Update the values to create your language file.

> 

Reviewer: There should be an `en.json` equivalent of the Spanish code sample below.

es.json
```json
{
"header": {
  "welcome_back": "Bienvenidos, {name}",

>   "skip_to_main": "saltar a la principal"

Reviewer: Should the capitalization here match the English?

   },
 }
```

## Creating translation keys

Perform the following steps to create new key-value pairs and invoke a defined translation key.

1. Add a key-value pair to a language file.
  

>   In `en.json`, add `new_hours`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In `en.json`, add `new_hours` key and corresponding information for the value.
```

```json
"header": {
        "welcome_back": "Welcome back, {name}",
        "skip_to_main": "Skip to main content",
        "new_hours": "Summer hours: {hours}"
    },

```

> In `es.json`, add `new_hours` and the Spanish translation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `es.json`, add the same`new_hours` key and the Spanish translation of the value.
```

```json
"header": {
        "welcome_back": "Bienvenidos, {name}",
        "skip_to_main": "saltar a la principal",

>         "new_hours": "horario de verano"

Reviewer: This key-value pair is missing the `{hours}` component from the English translation.

    },

```

> 2. Use the handlebars `lang` directive in the appropriate file to show a translated string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Use the Handlebars `lang` directive in the appropriate file to show a translated string.
```

For this example, update `/templates/components/common/header.html` using the code below. Add the code after the `{{/if}}` tag and before the `<header>` tag.

```html
{{/if}} 

> {{> components/common/alert/alert-success (lang 'header.new_hours' hours="8 AM to 5 PM Central" ) }}

Reviewer: What does this code look like when executed?
Right now it looks like it would result in the following:

"Summer hours: {hours} hours="8 AM to 5 PM Central"
If this is the case, we don't need the text past the `header.new_hours` part.

Author: It reads fine as  (lang 'header.new_hours' hours="8 AM to 5 PM Central" ) will be seen as
summer hours = 8 AM to 5 PM Central

new_hours**:** Summer hours**:** {hours}

<header class="header" role="banner">
```

## Updating browser settings

Update your language browser to display the translation on the storefront. The following steps are for the Chrome browser.

1. In your browser, go to **Settings** > **Advanced**.
2. Select languages.
3. Expand the language dialog and click **Add languages**.
4. Select your desired language and click **Add**.
5. Drag the newly selected language to the top of the list.
6. Refresh your browser to see the translations.

<div class="HubBlock--callout">
<div class="CalloutBlock--info">
<div class="HubBlock-content">

<!-- theme:  -->

> ### NOTE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Note
```

- [Resources](#resources)

</div>

You have the option of localizing your theme for desired target languages. This tutorial describes the case of localizing a storefront for multiple languages. The translated values are displayed depending on the language selected in your browser. By the end of this tutorial, you should be familiar enough to localize headers, footers, buttons, payment methods, or any part of your theme.

### Prerequisites

For this tutorial, you will need to use Stencil CLI and use [Browsersync](https://github.com/bigcommerce/browser-sync) to serve up a live preview of a theme in development.

This article assumes you have familiarity with the following concepts:

* [Installing Stencil CLI](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/stencil-docs/installing-stencil-cli/installing-stencil)
* [Creating a Stencil CLI Token](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Store-API-Accounts)
* [Downloading and Uploading Custom Themes](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Stencil-Themes#download-upload)
* [Serving a live preview](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/stencil-docs/installing-stencil-cli/live-previewing-a-theme#serving-a-live-preview)

> ## Getting started

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adding a language file
```
Should also be updated in the "on this page" section.

1. After downloading and extracting your Stencil theme, open the folder containing your theme files and navigate to the `/lang` subfolder. 

<div class="HubBlock--callout">
<div class="CalloutBlock--info">
<div class="HubBlock-content">

<!-- theme:  -->
> **NOTE:** The `/lang` subfolder includes the `en.json` file. The `en.json` file and your language file must be present for a localized Stencil theme to work. Each language requires its own JSON file. 

</div>
</div>
</div>

> 

Author: Added in existing language file to an earlier sentence. The files exist but they are basically empty.

2. Use the `en.json` file and copy over the necessary key-value pairs. Update the values to create your language files.

 ar.json
```json                                                                                           
{                                                                                       
"header": {                                                                   
   "welcome_back": "{name} ,مرحبا",
   "skip_to_main": "تخطي إلى المحتوى الرئيسي"
    },                                                                                 
}                                                                                          
```

fr.json
```json
{
"header": {
  "welcome_back": "Bienvenue, {name}",
  "skip_to_main": "aller au contenu principal"
   },
 }
```

> 3. Name your translation file based on the [BCP 47 specification](https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp47) of language and region codes.

Reviewer: This should be mentioned earlier since the file has already been created at this point.

## Creating translation keys

> Perform the following steps to create new key-value pairs and invoke a defined translation key.

Reviewer: These seem like the same steps from the section above but with more details in some areas. 
Are these steps different?

Author: The steps are similar but are for a different purpose. The steps should be shown again to describe how to create a translation key.

1. Add a key-value pair to a language file.
  
  For example, in `en.json`, add `new_hours`.

```json
"header": {
        "welcome_back": "Welcome back, {name}",
        "skip_to_main": "Skip to main content",
        "new_hours": "Summer hours: {hours}"
    },

```
In `ar.json`, add `new_hours` and the Arabic translation.

```json
"header": {
        "welcome_back": "{name}, أهلا وسهلا!",
        "skip_to_main": "تخطي إلى المحتوى الرئيسي",
        "new_hours": "{hours}: ساعات الصيف"
    },

```
In `fr.json`, add `new_hours` and the French translation.

```json
"header": {
        "welcome_back": "Bienvenue, {name}",
        "skip_to_main": "aller au contenu principal",
        "new_hours": "heures d'ouverture: {hours}"
    },

```

> 2. You can use the handlebars `lang` directive in the appropriate file to show a translated string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. (Optional) Use the Handlebars `lang` directive in the appropriate file to show a translated string.
```

For this example, update `Cornerstone-5.3.0/templates/components/common/header.html` using the code below. Add the code after the `{{/if}}` tag and before the `<header>` tag.

```html
{{/if}} 
{{> components/common/alert/alert-success (lang 'header.new_hours' hours="8 AM to 5 PM Central" ) }}
<header class="header" role="banner">
```

> ## Update browser settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Updating browser settings
```

> Follow the steps below to update your language browser to display the translation on the storefront.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update your language browser to display the translation on the storefront. The following steps are for the Chrome browser.
```

> **NOTE:** These steps are for the Chrome internet browser. Other browsers my look and act differently. We suggest previewing your site to ensure the localization is working.

Reviewer: This note should have the formatting of the Note above.

> **NOTE:** These steps are for the Chrome internet browser. Other browsers my look and act differently. We suggest previewing your site to ensure the localization is working.

Reviewer: This note should be moved to underneath the steps.

> **NOTE:** These steps are for the Chrome internet browser. Other browsers my look and act differently. We suggest previewing your site to ensure the localization is working.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** Other browsers may look and act differently. We suggest previewing your site to ensure the localization is working as expected.
```

1. In your browser, go to **Settings** > **Advanced**.

> 2. Select languages.

Reviewer: The name of the selection should match the capitalization in the browser.
It should also be bolded.

> 3. Expand the language dialog and click **Add languages**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Expand the language dialog and click **Add languages**.
```

> 4. Select the language and click **Add**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select your desired language and click **Add**.
```

> 5. Drag the newly selected language to the top of the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Drag the newly selected language to the top of the list.
```

1. Add a key-value pair to a language file.
  
  In `en.json`, add `new_hours` key and corresponding information for the value.

```json
"header": {
        "welcome_back": "Welcome back, {name}",
        "skip_to_main": "Skip to main content",
        "new_hours": "Summer hours: {hours}"
    },

```
In `es.json`, add the same `new_hours` key and the Spanish translation of the value.

```json
"header": {
        "welcome_back": "Bienvenidos, {name}",
        "skip_to_main": "Saltar a la principal",
        "new_hours": "Horario de verano: {hours}"
    },

```
2. Use the Handlebars `lang` directive in the appropriate file to show a translated string.

For this example, update `/templates/components/common/header.html` using the code below. Add the code after the `{{/if}}` tag and before the `<header>` tag.

```html
{{/if}} 
{{> components/common/alert/alert-success (lang 'header.new_hours' hours="8 AM to 5 PM Central" ) }}
<header class="header" role="banner">
```

## Updating browser settings

Update your language browser to display the translation on the storefront. The following steps are for the Chrome browser.

1. In your browser, go to **Settings** > **Advanced**.

> 2. Select languages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select **Languages**.
```

* [Creating a Stencil CLI Token](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Store-API-Accounts)
* [Downloading and Uploading Custom Themes](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Stencil-Themes#download-upload)
* [Serving a live preview](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/stencil-docs/installing-stencil-cli/live-previewing-a-theme#serving-a-live-preview)

### Prerequisites

* For this tutorial, you will need to use Stencil CLI and use [Browsersyn](https://github.com/bigcommerce/browser-sync) to serve up a live preview of a theme in development.

## Getting started
1. Within the Stencil theme, go to the top-level `/lang` subdirectory. You will save your language files here. Each language requires its own JSON file. 

<div class="HubBlock--callout">
<div class="CalloutBlock--info">
<div class="HubBlock-content">

<!-- theme:  -->
> **NOTE:** The `/lang` subdirectory includes the `/en.json` file. Both files must be present for a Stencil theme to work.

</div>
</div>
</div>

2. Use the `en.json` file to prepare your language file. Copy over the necessary key-value pairs and update the values.

```json

>  ar.json                                           fr.json                                 

Reviewer 2: Maybe it will be good to use this key `welcome_back` as an example for the whole tutorial. We can show what phrase will be rendered for Arabic version and what for English. 🍹

Author: I wasn't able to fine the appropriate file that contains welcome_back. I am happy to change it if you tell me what file it is in.

"header": {                                       "header": {                             
   "welcome_back": "{name} ,مرحبا",                 "welcome_back": "Bienvenue, {name}"  
    },                                             },                                     
}                                                 }                                           
```
3. Name your translation file based on the [BCP 47 specification](https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp47) of language and region codes.

## Creating translation keys

Perform the following steps to create new key-value pairs and invoke a defined translation key.

1. Add a key-value pair to a language file.
  
  For example, in en.json, add `powered_by`.

```html
"footer": {
        "title": "Footer Start",
        "brands": "Popular Brands",
        "navigate": "Site Navigate",
        "info": "Info",
        "categories": "Categories",
        "call_us": "Call us at {phone_number}",
        "powered_by": "Powered by"
    },
```
2. You can use the handlebars `lang` directive in the appropriate file to show a translated string.

```html
{{lang "translation.key" optionalVariable="someValue"}}
```

> For this example, update footer.html as shown below.

Reviewer 3: Might want to include the full path to `footer.html` to make it easier to find

```html

> {{/if}} {{#if theme_settings.show_powered_by}}

Reviewer 2: ```
{{#if theme_settings.show_powered_by}}
  {{lang 'footer.powered_by'}} BigCommerce
{{/if}}
```
The example in the docs is invalid. You need to have closed if {{/if}}  after the open one {{#if}}

  {{lang 'footer.powered_by'}} BigCommerce
```

## Update browser settings

Follow the steps below to update your language browser to display the translation on the storefront.

1. In your browser, go to **Settings** > **Advanced**.
2. Select languages.
3. Expand the language dialog and click **Add languages**.
4. Select the language and click **Add**.
5. Drag the newly selected language to the top of the list.
6. Refresh your browser to see the translations.

## Resources
* [Translation Keys](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/stencil-docs/localization/translation-keys)

> * [Customizing a Theme - lang directory Video Demo (YouTube)](https://www.youtube.com/embed/ygiRGfSrmnA)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [Customizing a Theme - lang directory Video Demo (YouTube)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ygiRGfSrmnA)
```
The embed link works but opens in full-screen since it is meant to be embedded into a page. I added the standard watch link instead.

> * [JSON translation file (BigCommerce GitHub)](https://github.com/bigcommerce/cornerstone/tree/master/lang)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [JSON translation files (BigCommerce GitHub)](https://github.com/bigcommerce/cornerstone/tree/master/lang)
```
Pluralized since Cornerstone comes with 4 translation files
